---
published: "2025-08-03"
link: "https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/1413"
authors: ["[[Matteo Campanelli]]", "[[Dario Fiore]]", "[[Mahak Pancholi]]"]
tags: ["cryptography", "paper"]
---

# Abstract

> Incrementally Verifiable Computation (IVC) allows one to prove the correctness of a computation of potentially unbounded length in an incremental way, while a computationally weak client can efficiently check its correctness in time sublinear in the computation's length. IVC is particularly useful in several real-world applications such as scalable blockchains, distributed computation, and verifiable machine learning. Yet, most existing IVC schemes are only provably secure for constant-depth computations. Arguing their security for computations of polynomial depth relies on heuristic assumptions, raising both theoretical and practical concerns.
> In this work, we delve into the security foundations of incremental proof systems, addressing two main questions. First, we revisit the security analysis, in the unbounded-depth regime, of the canonical construction of IVC based on the recursive composition of SNARKs. We extend this analysis to include SNARKs that are straightline extractable in the algebraic group model (AGM) and some additional oracle model. As a consequence of our result, we obtain novel instantiations of IVC for unbounded-depth computations based on AGM-based SNARKs, such as Groth16 or Marlin, to name a few—an important class of SNARKs not captured by similar analyses in prior work [Chiesa et al. TCC 2024].
> Second, we consider incremental proof systems for arbitrary depth computations in which full-blown extractability is not necessary. We study under what conditions they can be instantiated from the recursive composition of "plain" building blocks (SNARKs, folding, accumulation schemes), that is without requiring special straightline extractability. We introduce incremental functional commitments (incremental FC), a primitive that allows one to commit to a large data $D$ and later prove a function $f(D)$. The key aspect is that both the committing and proving functionalities operate incrementally, processing $D$ in a streaming, piece-by-piece manner. Also, like in standard FCs, their security property is a form of evaluation binding, a notion that is weaker than knowledge-soundness (it states that it is hard to produce two valid proofs for the same commitment and two distinct outputs). Our second main result consists of a construction of incremental FCs based on recursive composition of SNARKs and its security analysis, which shows that arbitrarily deep compositions of primitives with non-straightline extractors do not suffer from inherent security limitations.